environment/README.md, before:

# Dependencies you need locally
This is everything you need on a Mac to do development work at Grrr.


## SSH key
Create an SSH key:
```bash
$ ssh-keygen
```

Load it in your `~/.bash_profile` or alike:
```bash
ssh-add -K ~/.ssh/id_rsa > /dev/null 2>&1
```

Source it to activate in the current session:
```bash
$ . ~/.bash_profile
```

Copy the public key to your clipboard:
```
$ pbcopy < ~/.ssh/id_rsa.pub
```

Now insert that key into Github:
* Click your profile picture, at the right top
* Go to _Settings_
* Go to _SSH and GPG keys_ in the menu on the left
* Create a _New SSH key_ and paste the contents there.


## Homebrew
What would we do without it?
Not a whole lot, so go on and install it like there's no tomorrow:

```bash
$ /usr/bin/ruby -e "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/install/master/install)"
```


## Sudo-less Gems
Starting from MacOS High Sierra, you need a home for your gems.
Otherwise you might need `sudo` to install gems, and you don't want that.
Put this in your `~/.bash_profile` or alike:

```bash
export GEM_HOME=~/.gem
export PATH=$PATH:$GEM_HOME/bin
```

Now you can just use `gem install` without extra permissions.
You should never need `sudo` for this!


## Node and Composer paths
Make sure locally (project scoped) modules always take precedent by putting this in your `~/.bash_profile`:

```bash
export PATH=./vendor/bin:./node_modules/.bin:$PATH
```


## Docker and friends
Let's get Docker from Brew:
```bash
$ brew install caskroom/cask/brew-cask
$ brew cask install docker
```


## Application context for Garp 3
Garp 3 projects require this env var, so set it in your `~/.bash_profile`:
```bash
export APPLICATION_ENV=development
```


## Node version
Currently we don't support Node v10 yet.
To downgrade to the latest LTS:

```bash
$ brew install node@8
$ brew unlink node
$ brew link node@8 --force --overwrite
```

Commit message:

Create initial DRAFT of MoOde guidelines.
Used guidelines from grrr-amsterdam as a starting point.
Most of the focus was on git & branching.
That should be a close starting point to what we should use,
based on discussion and decisions from the forums.

This DRAFT check-in provides framework for other efforts:
coding-standards, release process, developer environment, etc.
I have no really hard opinions there, just thought that this
could caputure a starting point, and a place to build upon.

environment/README.md, after:

# Dependencies you need locally


## Need sections for

- MacOS
- Windows
- linux
- VirtualBox w/ Linux


## Need to define tools that should be part of environment:

I'm not overly opinionated on these, but there should be a  list of core pieces.
- jslint ?
- https://github.com/squizlabs/PHP_CodeSniffer/ ?
- any node or npm packages ?

If we have common core tools, then we can add some .git/hooks/pre-commit to validate whatever needs checking prior to committing.





## Not converted for use with moOde.



## below was for Mac, but not yet converted

## SSH key
Create an SSH key:
```bash
$ ssh-keygen
```

Load it in your `~/.bash_profile` or alike:
```bash
ssh-add -K ~/.ssh/id_rsa > /dev/null 2>&1
```

Source it to activate in the current session:
```bash
$ . ~/.bash_profile
```

Copy the public key to your clipboard:
```
$ pbcopy < ~/.ssh/id_rsa.pub
```

Now insert that key into Github:
* Click your profile picture, at the right top
* Go to _Settings_
* Go to _SSH and GPG keys_ in the menu on the left
* Create a _New SSH key_ and paste the contents there.


## Homebrew
What would we do without it?
Not a whole lot, so go on and install it like there's no tomorrow:

```bash
$ /usr/bin/ruby -e "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/install/master/install)"
```


## Sudo-less Gems
Starting from MacOS High Sierra, you need a home for your gems.
Otherwise you might need `sudo` to install gems, and you don't want that.
Put this in your `~/.bash_profile` or alike:

```bash
export GEM_HOME=~/.gem
export PATH=$PATH:$GEM_HOME/bin
```

Now you can just use `gem install` without extra permissions.
You should never need `sudo` for this!


## Node and Composer paths
Make sure locally (project scoped) modules always take precedent by putting this in your `~/.bash_profile`:

```bash
export PATH=./vendor/bin:./node_modules/.bin:$PATH
```


## Docker and friends
Let's get Docker from Brew:
```bash
$ brew install caskroom/cask/brew-cask
$ brew cask install docker
```


## Application context for Garp 3
Garp 3 projects require this env var, so set it in your `~/.bash_profile`:
```bash
export APPLICATION_ENV=development
```


## Node version
Currently we don't support Node v10 yet.
To downgrade to the latest LTS:

```bash
$ brew install node@8
$ brew unlink node
$ brew link node@8 --force --overwrite
```
