docker/os-setup/README.md, before:

# Docker OS Setup

## Installation

- Install the [Docker client](https://www.docker.com/community-edition#/download)


## NFS on MacOS
We use NFS to speed up file synchronization between host and container.
If you're running MacOS, NFS is not as fast as you'd like, out of the box.

You can use the following tweak to speed it up a little.

Add the following lines to `/etc/nfs.conf`:
```
nfs.client.allow_async = 1
nfs.client.nfsiod_thread_max = 128
```


## The `dock` shortcut to run Docker commands
Install the shortcut below in your shell to shorten the syntax to run commands on your running `web` container.
Now, instead of:
```bash
$ docker exec -it myproject_web_1 [command]
```
You can run:
```bash
$ dock [command]
```
For instance:
```bash
$ dock ls
$ dock bash
$ dock g spawn
$ dock g snippet create
```



### Bash

For in your `~/.bash_profile`:
```bash
function dock {
    docker exec -it ${PWD##*/}_web_1 "$@"
}
```
### Fish shell
Add this function with `funced dock` and then save with `funcsave dock`.
```bash
function dock
    docker exec -it (basename $PWD)_web_1 $argv
end
```


## Add convenience hostname

- Optionally, you can add the Docker database host (we use `db` for convention) to your local nameserver, so you can address it with this name instead of an IP address.

  Add the following line to `/etc/hosts`:
  `127.0.0.1 db`

Commit message:

Create initial DRAFT of MoOde guidelines.
Used guidelines from grrr-amsterdam as a starting point.
Most of the focus was on git & branching.
That should be a close starting point to what we should use,
based on discussion and decisions from the forums.

This DRAFT check-in provides framework for other efforts:
coding-standards, release process, developer environment, etc.
I have no really hard opinions there, just thought that this
could caputure a starting point, and a place to build upon.

docker/os-setup/README.md, after:

# Docker OS Setup

## Not converted for use with moOde.

Running MoOde, or moOde processes in a docker container may allow for quicker
testing, but is not part of a current (or planned) workflow.

This document exists to capture any experimental efforts that may be taken.

## Installation

- Install the [Docker client](https://www.docker.com/community-edition#/download)


## NFS on MacOS
We use NFS to speed up file synchronization between host and container.
If you're running MacOS, NFS is not as fast as you'd like, out of the box.

You can use the following tweak to speed it up a little.

Add the following lines to `/etc/nfs.conf`:
```
nfs.client.allow_async = 1
nfs.client.nfsiod_thread_max = 128
```


## The `dock` shortcut to run Docker commands
Install the shortcut below in your shell to shorten the syntax to run commands on your running `web` container.
Now, instead of:
```bash
$ docker exec -it myproject_web_1 [command]
```
You can run:
```bash
$ dock [command]
```
For instance:
```bash
$ dock ls
$ dock bash
$ dock g spawn
$ dock g snippet create
```



### Bash

For in your `~/.bash_profile`:
```bash
function dock {
    docker exec -it ${PWD##*/}_web_1 "$@"
}
```
### Fish shell
Add this function with `funced dock` and then save with `funcsave dock`.
```bash
function dock
    docker exec -it (basename $PWD)_web_1 $argv
end
```


## Add convenience hostname

- Optionally, you can add the Docker database host (we use `db` for convention) to your local nameserver, so you can address it with this name instead of an IP address.

  Add the following line to `/etc/hosts`:
  `127.0.0.1 db`
